the war on Gaza now and Israeli forces
have killed at least 39 Palestinians
across the strip since Wednesday six
were employees of the UN Agency for
Palestinian refugees they were killed in
a targeted Israeli strike on a school in
the alnus rat refugee camp funerals have
been held for some of the 18 people who
died in the attack the school was being
used as a shelter housing around 12,000
displaced Palestinians unra says it's
the highest death toll among its staff
in a single incident during the 11-month
War let's bring in Han Mahmud now who is
in darl Bala in central Gaza honey uh
the funeral has been held for those
people who were killed in that
devastating attack on the UN run school
yesterday well Mariam it's an aftermath
after an aftermath a tragedy after a
tragedy just as we were talking about
the funeral procession here and the the
farewell for the many who were killed
inside the school uh the other Hills
facilities are also busy accommodating
large influx of injuries from a recent
fresh attack on a residential building
in southern part of kanuni that's an
area between the central area and Han
Unice near the European hospital and the
residential block is known as the res as
the European residential complex in
southern part of hanun city where four
member of from one family inside of a
residential flat were killed as a drone
fired missiles inside these inside this
flat killing four members of One family
and injuring the remaining family
members who were inside the flat and
this is the patterns of attacks have
been happening over and over here inside
the hospital and that is the scenario
everywhere not only at this health
facility but here we're able to see
doctors what they're doing their
intervention their their effort to try
to save lives but the lack of medical
suppli the insufficient medical staff
the fact that almost a year long
genocidal war and people here dealing
with cases back to back for the for
almost a whole year is just very
exhausting and making it very difficult
to intervene in a proper way and to save
lives injuries from the yesterday's
attack on a school ja school which by
the way is not the first time it's the
fifth attack on the school leaving 18
people killed majority women and
children including six anoa employees
and that's hard part of ongoing attacks
isra military it's political Elite are
pushing for an narrative to delegitimize
honor and its work across the Gaza STP
and make it look so bad so in order to
justify any of the attacks so far Ana
sta has lost close to 20 220 of its
staff members on the gr working in
different fields and delivering Aid and
con securing Aid convoys and delivering
a vaccination to the nor part of of the
Gaza Strip but those were inside the
facility helping the many uh children
and women inside this evacuation Center
to survive these difficult
conditions honey thank you very much for
the update that's Al jaz's hany Mahmud
reporting their life from darab Bala in
central Gaza as hany mentioned there six
unra employees were killed in the attack
on that un run School in Alat let's take
a closer look at the impact of the war
on un's operations in the Gaza strip the
UN agency employs about 13,000 staff 220
have been killed in Israeli attacks
since October the 7th more than 190 of
its facilities have been destroyed only
10 of the agency's 27 Health Care
Centers remain operational nearly 70% of
the 193 schools it runs have been hit
and many severely damaged 95% of them
were being used to shelter displaced
people the UN agency supports nearly 6
million Palestinian refugees across the
Middle East the US is its largest donor
contributing more than $420 million in
2023 while joining us now on the newsour
is Sam Rose who's the senior deputy
director of unra Affairs in Gaza he's
live from kanu and his son Sam thank you
so much for being with us it is
devastating to see these continuing
attacks on humanitarian workers how are
your teams on the ground coping uh in
the wake of this new tragedy and how is
it affecting your operations in Gaza
thanks for having me on look this is one
of the most difficult days that that we
faced in UN in Gaza during the most
difficult conflicts that we've we've
ever faced staff in the offices are in
Shock that they're grieving they're
despairing and the colleagues on the
ground who who I've talked to in the
shelter providing firstline response are
just just devastated yet another attack
on a protected un facility the fifth
time as he said at the at the start of
the the the C that that that this school
itself has been attacked so it it's
devastating it's horrific it's all these
superlatives and just the scale and the
rapidity of the incidents are just too
difficult for us to get our heads around
sometimes yeah these were local
humanitarian workers who were helping
their fellow Palestinians today Gaza
really is a dangerous Place uh to work
for for humanitarian workers no one
seems to be safe is there a point Sam
where where it'll be impossible to do
your work on the
ground I mean we're certainly running
out of options the highest number of un
workers and humanitarians slain in in
any conflict the vast majority of them
unra workers we're facing increasing
difficulties getting our supplies into
we had a terrible terrible incident at
one of the checkpoints uh trying to go
north a couple of of of nights ago to a
lead on the administration of of the
polio campaign so yeah we're running out
of options the space in which we're able
to operate geographically but also kind
of conceptually and existentially is is
simply shrinking and our staff working
day in day out around the clock to whom
I want to express my my tribute and my
condolences to them and their families
they're facing it increasingly difficult
because we as unra are not able to
afford them the protections that they uh
that they require and unre doesn't
operate in a vacuum unre is an organ of
the UN General Assembly we're part of
the United Nations and we have to call
on UN member states to to see what they
can do to make this environment safer
for us safer for our staff safer for the
12,000 who were Sheltering in that
installation running away and evacuating
from bombardments and conflict what they
can do to keep them safe let me just ask
you Sam about this call that was hit on
Wednesday and Israel justification for
targeting it um the the this SCH was hit
five times already this year it was
being used as a shelter as we know but
the Israeli Army has said that this was
a Hamas command and control center what
do you say to that was this school or
the area around it as you know being
used for fighting
purposes I mean i' say three things one
is I I mean I can't confirm the
specifics o of that secondly regardless
of that there are rules in war that
require all parties to a conflict to
respect the humanitarian character the
protected character of certain
installations that includes un
installations that includes schools
there were 12,000 people Sheltering in
that school the vast majority of them
women and children who deserve
protection uh the third thing I would
say is that this school was being used
just a few days ago for delivery of of
polio vaccin so precisely the place that
we were going to as the United Nations
to provide safety for these children has
now yet again come under attack it's
simply devastating as you've said Sam UN
member states are meant to protect
humanitarian Ian workers we've heard the
Secretary General again uh condemn this
attack saying it was unacceptable but
this seems to be happening time and time
again we hear the condemnation we know
it's a violation of international law
what else are you hoping to see from
these UN member states uh so they can
ensure that humanitarian workers like
those of unra are protected in these
conflict
zones we call on member states to uphold
the principles of of the United United
Nations Charter and protect the
character of humanitarian operations and
humanitarian installations all
humanitarians here and and in other
conflicts around the world we call for
the United Nations member states to put
pressure on those who are undermining
the the character of of those
organizations and its employees
including unra but most of all right now
we call for an immediate ceasefire we
call for a release of hostages because
that's the only way that this is going
to come come to an end if not I'll be on
this show next week talking about yet
another catastrophe yet more Carnage yet
more devastating and completely needless
loss of life thank you so much for
talking to us Sam Sam Rose is the senior
deputy director of unra Affairs in
Gaza make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer